#Session 5

##Nero, Domitian, and Trajan's Persecutions

###Nero 

Nero may have started the fire in Rome. Nero blamed the Christians for the fire. Then he persecuted them. They were killed by dogs, or nailed to crosses, or burned, or used as lamps. People began to pity them.

###Domitian

Domitian murdered everyone in Davids line. He ordered an account from Christs grand nephews. They were poor working men. Domitian let them go because he thought they were dumb and ordered the persecution to be ceased.

##Eusebius's Sources.

###Josephus
Eusebius uses him quite a lot in Church History. He was a Jewish historian who lived from about 37–101 A.D. He held important positions in both Jewish and pagan circles. He was able to negotiate the release of Jewish prisoners whom Nero had imprisoned in 64 A.D. Although skeptical of the Jewish desire to throw off Rome, he agreed to serve as a commander-in-chief in Galilee. The only way he survived the massacre in Galilee was by hiding in a cistern until the Romans agreed to let him live. He was able to find favor with Vespasian (the Roman general leading the attack) and was freed when Vespasian became emperor in 69 A.D. He was extremely well-educated and was able to write about Jewish history in highly eloquent Greek. His two most notable works are The Jewish War and Jewish Antiquities. You probably recall the grotesque details that Eusebius records regarding the destruction of Jerusalem, of which this writer was a firsthand eyewitness.

###Justin Martyr
This historian lived from about 100–165 A.D. He was born into a pagan family in Asia Minor in the Roman Empire. He converted to Christianity as a young adult after studying under many different philosophers in search for the truth. In 165 A.D. he was put to death by the Roman prefect, Rusticus, because he would not renounce Christianity and sacrifice to the Roman gods. The common belief is that the philosopher Crescens plotted his martyrdom. Among his many works the following is probably his most well known: A Defense of Our Faith (I & II). He also wrote Against the Greeks, The Sovereignty of God, and Dialogue with the Jew Tryphon. Who was he?

###Hegesippus
This historian is from the second century and is only really known because Eusebius cites his work. He was most likely a Jewish convert because of his knowledge of Jewish Scriptures and oral traditional teachings. His most famous work is Hypomnemata (which means Memoirs in English), which is a very clear writing of the tradition of apostolic teaching from what was reported by Bishops. Who was he?

###Tertullian
This next historian was a prolific writer of theology in the second and third centuries. He was born to a Roman centurion in Carthage and, therefore, grew up in a pagan home, but converted to Christianity in midlife. He became a priest in Carthage and wrote many works defending the Christian faith against rumors spread throughout Rome about the faith. He was strict in his Christian beliefs and, unfortunately, left the orthodox church at the beginning of the third century to become a Montanist (though he lived long after Montanus). We don’t have enough room to list all of this historian’s works, but he wrote about the following topics: defending Christians against pagan conceptions of their teachings, defending Christian teaching against particular heretics, attacking heretical ideas, and the advancement of his ideas about Christian living on a variety of different topics. Here are just some of his works: Apology, To the Nations, Against Marcion, Against Praxeas, On Baptism, On the Resurrection of the Flesh, To the Martyrs, On Prayer, On Fasting, and On Head-Coverings for Unmarried Girls.

###Clement of Alexandria
Although this historian’s date of birth is unknown, he died about 215 A.D. He was a devoted student and thinker who became a Christian even though he was born to pagan parents. He served as head of the catechetical school of Alexandria, which was a center for different cultures, art, and learning. The catechetical school was something like the theology department of a university. When Severus allowed the persecution of Christians, this historian left to serve as bishop of the church in Antioch when his friend, Bishop Alexander, was imprisoned for the faith. He wrote many books of theology. Some were practical guides for new or growing Christians, while others were more allegorical and philosophical. Some of the many titles include Hortatory Discourse to the Greeks, Outlines, The Tutor, and Exhortation. Who was he?

###Irenaeus
This historian lived from c. 130–202 A.D. As a young boy, he was blessed enough to have seen and heard Polycarp. He was a bishop in Gaul (modern-day Lyon, France) and worked diligently to spread the Gospel and to protect the Church from false teaching. His most famous work is called Against Heresies. Containing five books, this work primarily combats the Gnostic heresy that was having a strong influence on Gaul during this time. Who was he?

##Destruction of Jerusalem

Judaism changed after the Destruction. It turned from old testament worship to new testament worship. Titus reformed the jewish temple. haha

Christianity was no longer associated with Judaism. They were no longer linked in Jerusalem or the Temple.

Josephus was a general for the Jews, then he surrendered to Vespasian. He worked with Vespasian to try to get the Jews to surrender because he knew that they were doomed. He saw the war from both sides, which makes him a very credible source for the destruction of Jerusalem.

(Preaterism) Some people belive prophetic texts refer to the Destruction of Jerusalem. (Futurism) Others think that it refers to the future, when the tribulation and antichrist come. 