#Session 6

##Emperor Review

###Nero

Reigned from 54-68 A.D. Although the media will likely feature this emperor as a successful poet and world-renowned rock star, don’t be fooled. He actually angered most of the civilized world when he went “on tour” through Italy and Greece, extolling his own virtues before the masses. He started out with a neutral attitude toward Christians. However, after burning down Rome and then singing a song with his lyre while thousands of Romans died in the flames, he decided to blame the Christians. He was the first to institute active persecution of Christians. By robbing or confiscating property and money from them, this emperor was able to fund the rebuilding of the city. Although this persecution was mainly local (in Rome), its impact was great. Under his reign, both Paul and Peter were martyred, Jerusalem was besieged, and his own mom and two of his wives were put to death. Rock stars do have a reputation for causing damage wherever they go, but this emperor’s destruction was so great that even his supporters turned against him in the end, causing him to commit suicide.

###Domitian
Reigned from 81-96 A.D. This emperor was very serious about being known as the number-one guy. So serious, in fact, that he was the first emperor to declare himself a god while still living. Using the law against atheism (i.e., not believing in Roman gods), he persecuted Christians in Rome and in other parts of the empire. He confiscated property, banished people to islands (tradition says it was this emperor who banished John to Patmos), and systematically began executing all those said to be in David’s line. Terribly worried that the Messiah would come and set up His own kingdom, this emperor was determined to protect his throne at all costs. Upon finding out from the descendents of Jude that Christ’s kingdom was a heavenly kingdom that would be established at the end of the world when Christ would come to judge the living and the dead, this emperor halted all persecutions, deciding Christians were no real threat to his rule. He continued to despise them, however, for what he thought were their simple-headed ideas. After his reign was over, the banished Christians were returned and their property was restored to them

###Trajan
Reigned 98-117 A.D. Although the media can honestly report this emperor to be the mildest of our three emperors, he didn’t exactly keep Christians safe. Too busy expanding the empire and encouraging profitable business and a flourishing art scene, this emperor might not have even noticed Christians if it hadn’t been for Pliny the Younger, governor of Bithynia in Asia Minor. Pliny Jr. brought the Christians to this emperor’s attention by writing to ask advice about how to manage the large number present in his region. Pliny the Younger reported that these Christians had a strange habit of waking at dawn to sing hymns to Christ as a god and refused to worship idols, but otherwise kept the Roman laws and encouraged their members to live faithful, moral lives. Because they did not seem to cause major problems, this emperor decided Christians were not to be actively hunted, but should be punished if found out since atheism was a crime. At first glance, this might seem like a good compromise, but it opened doors of opportunity for local rulers who were bent on persecuting Christians. It was not difficult to “accidentally” discover someone was a Christian and use this “discovery” to charge fines, confiscate property, or do much worse. This policy allowed persecutions to continue in scattered parts throughout the empire.

##Polycarp

Lady named Calisto. Calisto bought Polycarp. She raised Polycarp. Polycarp was pious, and well behaved. Calisto was treated like a son. He managed her property. She went away from home, Polycarp managed the house. He gave Calisto's resources to the poor and widowed. Other slaves said that Polycarp had plundered everything which was a lie. Polycarp said not to punish the person who snitched on him. Polycarp learned from the Apostle John.

###Marytrdom

Polycarp was arrested. He was asked to recant the Chritian belief. He was a bishop in smyrna. The crowd was very mad at him. They called for a lion to eat Polycarp, but the sports  were closed. He had to be burned to death. He had a vision that his pillow had burned up earlier so this was no surprise to him. When he was burning, he did not smell like burning flesh, but smelled like gold and silver. His body was not consumed by the fire, so someone slashed him with a sword. This blood put out the fire.